Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) Model for QA Bot
This repository contains a project focused on developing a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) model for a Question Answering (QA) bot. The project integrates a vector database, Pinecone, and a generative model, Cohere, to handle question answering based on a provided document or dataset.

Table of Contents
Introduction
Setup and Installation
Configuration
Usage
Testing
Documentation
Contributing
License
Introduction
The goal of this project is to implement a RAG-based model that can answer questions related to a provided document or dataset. This is achieved by using Pinecone to store and retrieve document embeddings efficiently and Cohere for generating coherent answers based on retrieved information.

Key Features
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG): Combines retrieval and generative approaches for question answering.
Pinecone DB: Used as a vector database to manage and query document embeddings.
Cohere API: Utilized for generating coherent answers based on the retrieved information.
Setup and Installation
To set up and run the project locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone the Repository
bash

git clone https://github.com/ThisTimeMaybe/Retrieval-Augmented-Generation-RAG-Model-for-QA-Bot.git
cd Retrieval-Augmented-Generation-RAG-Model-for-QA-Bot
2. Install Dependencies
You can install the necessary Python packages using pip. It’s recommended to use a virtual environment.

bash

pip install -r requirements.txt
3. Configuration
Create a .env file in the root directory of the project and add the following environment variables:

plaintext

COHERE_API_KEY=your-cohere-api-key
PINECONE_API_KEY=your-pinecone-api-key
PINECONE_ENVIRONMENT=your-pinecone-environment
INDEX_NAME=your-index-name
Replace your-cohere-api-key, your-pinecone-api-key, your-pinecone-environment, and your-index-name with your actual API keys and configuration.

Usage
To run the project and test the QA model, use the provided Colab notebook. The notebook demonstrates the entire pipeline from data loading to question answering.

Open the Colab notebook:

Navigate to Colab_Notebook.ipynb.
Execute the notebook cells in sequence to:

Load the data.
Initialize Pinecone and Cohere.
Create or connect to the Pinecone index.
Process the document and generate embeddings.
Perform queries and generate responses.
Testing
Test the QA model by running the notebook and performing the following actions:

Upload a sample document.
Execute various queries related to the document.
Evaluate the relevance and coherence of the answers generated by the model.
Example Queries
Query: "What is the main topic of the document?"

Expected Output: A brief summary or key topic based on the document content.
Query: "List the main points covered in the document."

Expected Output: A list of key points or sections from the document.
Documentation
Model Architecture
Retrieval Component: Uses Pinecone to store and query document embeddings.
Generative Component: Utilizes Cohere API to generate answers based on retrieved information.
Approach to Retrieval
Embedding Creation: Convert the document into embeddings using Cohere.
Storage: Store these embeddings in Pinecone.
Querying: Retrieve relevant embeddings based on user queries.
Response Generation: Generate answers using Cohere based on the retrieved embeddings.
Generative Responses
Input: Query text and relevant document embeddings.
Output: Generated answer that is coherent and relevant to the query.
Contributing
If you’d like to contribute to this project, please fork the repository and submit a pull request. Ensure that you follow the existing code style and include tests for any new functionality.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Requirements File (requirements.txt)
Ensure that you include all necessary dependencies in the requirements.txt file. Based on your project, it should look something like this:

plaintext

gradio==4.44.0
pinecone-client==0.1.0
cohere==3.0.1
PyPDF2==3.0.0
You can generate this file using:

bash

pip freeze > requirements.txt
